--- Log opened Sat Aug 03 15:12:13 2013
15:12 -!- matches [matches@motsugo.ucc.gu.uwa.edu.au] has joined #mctxuwa_softdev
15:12 -!- Irssi: #mctxuwa_softdev: Total of 3 nicks [0 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 3 normal]
15:12 -!- Irssi: Join to #mctxuwa_softdev was synced in 2 secs
15:12 < matches> Good idea with the IRC channel
15:12 < matches> I'm Sam Moore by the way
15:14 < Callum_> Hey. Finally someone else 
15:19 < Callum_> Hmm should probably close the app so my phone has enough battery to get me home. 
15:21 -!- Callum_ [~androirc@101.119.30.123] has quit ["AndroIRC - Android IRC Client ( http://www.androirc.com )"]
15:45 -!- james__ [~chatzilla@CPE-58-160-245-152.wa.bigpond.net.au] has quit [Ping timeout]
15:51 -!- Irssi: #mctxuwa_softdev: Total of 1 nicks [0 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 1 normal]
15:51 -!- matches [matches@motsugo.ucc.gu.uwa.edu.au] has left #mctxuwa_softdev []
--- Log closed Sat Aug 03 15:51:28 2013
--- Log opened Sat Aug 03 15:51:51 2013
15:51 -!- matches [matches@motsugo.ucc.gu.uwa.edu.au] has joined #mctxuwa_softdev
15:51 -!- Irssi: #mctxuwa_softdev: Total of 1 nicks [0 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 1 normal]
15:51 -!- Irssi: Join to #mctxuwa_softdev was synced in 2 secs
15:52 -!- matches changed the topic of #mctxuwa_softdev to: MCTX3420 UWA
15:52 -!- matches changed the topic of #mctxuwa_softdev to: MCTX3420 UWA - Team 4 (Software, Firmware, GUI)
16:40 -!- matches changed the topic of #mctxuwa_softdev to: MCTX3420 UWA - Team 4 (Software and stuff)
16:52 -!- james__ [~chatzilla@CPE-58-160-245-152.wa.bigpond.net.au] has joined #mctxuwa_softdev
16:54 -!- You're now known as sam__
16:54 < sam__> Yuck
16:54 -!- You're now known as sam_moore
16:55 < sam_moore> That works
16:55 < james__> Yuck?
16:55 < james__> Oh right
16:55 < james__> all the underscores?
16:55 < sam_moore> Yeah
16:55 < james__> its a bit of a pain
17:01 < sam_moore> I think you might be able to comment on changes if you use github
17:01 < sam_moore> I'll see if I can copy the repository there
17:01 < james__>  you should be able to
17:01 < sam_moore> It does seem useful
17:01 < james__> its what it waas designed for really
17:01 < sam_moore> Yeah, gitweb is a bit more limited
17:02 < james__> Yeah.  Or at least the features aren't as easily accesible as in github
17:10 < sam_moore> I'll clone the repository into github now
17:24 < james__> Need to be logged in but it looks like you can comment
18:13 -!- Callum [~Callum@220-253-137-113.dyn.iinet.net.au] has joined #mctxuwa_softdev
20:38 -!- Callum [~Callum@220-253-137-113.dyn.iinet.net.au] has quit [Ping timeout]
22:01 -!- james__ [~chatzilla@CPE-58-160-245-152.wa.bigpond.net.au] has quit ["ChatZilla 0.9.90.1 [Firefox 22.0/20130618035212]"]
22:15 -!- Irssi: #mctxuwa_softdev: Total of 1 nicks [0 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 1 normal]
--- Day changed Sun Aug 04 2013
10:43 -!- Callum [~Callum@220-253-137-113.dyn.iinet.net.au] has joined #mctxuwa_softdev
10:47 < Callum> morning
10:49 < sam_moore> Hi
10:52 < Callum> What is there we need to get done? i haven't really done anything yet
10:53 < sam_moore> We need to write a progress report on what we need to get done :P
10:53 < Callum> Thats the other thing i wanted to know, is the progress report per person or per group?
10:53 < sam_moore> It's per group, and it only has to be one page
10:54 < Callum> I'v had a quick look through the stuff online and only thing i can see is the example but it looks like its per person in that
10:54 < Callum> ok, that makes things a lot easier then
10:54 < sam_moore> We are meant to have our own technical diaries with handwritten notes
10:54 < Callum> yea saw that as well
10:55 < sam_moore> So, at the meeting we sort of worked out a vague idea of what systems we'll need
10:55 < Callum> yea had a read through the meeting notes
10:56 < Callum> seemed like a solid start
10:56 < sam_moore> Yes, I think I'll do a block diagram about it
10:56 < sam_moore> Since I actually have a raspberry pi I've been playing with it
10:57 < sam_moore> No one's really done that much though, to be fair our group was only completely formed by Friday
10:57 < Callum> Well, I'm the guy that moved into the group :p
10:58 < sam_moore> Is there anything in particular you'd like to work on?
10:59 < Callum> Il have another look through the meeting notes, but i don't really have any experience working with this hardware. Just mainly C + Java, but i pick stuff up pretty quick
10:59 < Callum> well, any hardware other than what we did in embedded
11:02 < sam_moore> We need to learn more about the actual requirements of the system I think, not sure how much we can work out without talking to all the other groups
11:03 < Callum> Yea true. Might have a play around with git sometime soon to get used to it
11:03 < sam_moore> Oh, something I listed in an email was image processing, that will be important
11:05 < sam_moore> Anyway, if you can try and find something that interests you that seems useful and just write a little bit on that, it would be great
11:06 < sam_moore> Learning git would be useful, you can write about that, it doesn't matter if Rowan does it as well since we'll all need to learn more
11:07 < sam_moore> I know enough of git to work on my own projects, but there are a lot of features designed for group work that I've never used
11:37 -!- james__ [~chatzilla@CPE-58-160-245-152.wa.bigpond.net.au] has joined #mctxuwa_softdev
11:42 < Callum> Sam, I think i got a different ssh key from github; So if im going to use this you'll likely need to add it
11:42 < Callum> And hey James
11:43 -!- Callum__ [~chatzilla@220-253-137-113.dyn.iinet.net.au] has joined #mctxuwa_softdev
11:45 -!- Callum [~Callum@220-253-137-113.dyn.iinet.net.au] has quit [EOF From client]
11:59 -!- james__ [~chatzilla@CPE-58-160-245-152.wa.bigpond.net.au] has quit [Ping timeout]
12:09 < sam_moore> Callum__: Ok, send it to me
12:11 < sam_moore> If you have github accounts let me know those as well
12:11 -!- james__ [~chatzilla@CPE-58-160-245-152.wa.bigpond.net.au] has joined #mctxuwa_softdev
12:11 < james__> Hey
12:12 < sam_moore> Hi
12:12 < sam_moore> You guys can't see what's written in the channel whilst you're not in it, right?
12:12 < james__> How are things
12:12 < james__> Nope
12:12 < james__> Its only once you log in  that you can read it
12:13 < sam_moore> I'm messing around with git a bit, I've sent an email about the progress report
12:13 < james__> Unless you log it there isn't any way to go back to previous convos
12:13 < sam_moore> I'd like to meet at 2pm on Monday if that's possible
12:13 < james__> sounds good
12:13 < sam_moore> I'm running irssi in screen on a server, so I'll have everything logged
12:13 < sam_moore> I'll look into making the logs available on git
12:14 < Callum__> think anyone would care if i go to G19 without the safety meeting? not like we're actually doing anything.
12:14 < james__> i'm using chatzilla so there is an inbuilt log function
12:15 < james__> Don't know tbh
12:15 < sam_moore> Callum__: No, but just try not do anything unsafe or the rest of us will get the blame :P
12:15 < Callum__> well, we could just meet somewhere else. Not like we need to go there
12:16 < sam_moore> Adrian did say that we could have people visit the lab, but we are responsible for anyone we bring in without the safety course.
12:16 < sam_moore> Ok, what's another good place?
12:16 < james__> No idea
12:16 < james__> The lab is kinda nice and quite/out of the way
12:16 < Callum__> ok well it should be fine. If it's a suitable meeting location than just go with it.
12:17 < sam_moore> I don't think it will be a big deal to go in G19, just don't use any equipment. It is a good place.
12:17 < Callum__> Yea. just making sure it wont be a problem
12:18 < Callum__> Im going to get some lunch. 
12:40 < sam_moore> You need to use git@github.com:matchesucc/MCTX3420.git to commit using your ssh key
12:41 < sam_moore> If you give me your username, I think you can use https://github.com/matchesucc/MCTX3420.git
12:41 < sam_moore> You should be able to commit to git.ucc with your ssh key
12:42 < sam_moore> But I think we'll prefer github. It looks like it has more features. I'll use that as the main repository and keep git.ucc up to date in case github explodes.
12:43 < Callum__> username: Callum-
12:45 < sam_moore> Right, before you commit your changes, pull from the server
12:45 < sam_moore> If your repository is "up to date" with the server and you make changes, it is really easy
12:46 < sam_moore> If it isn't and you have changes that contradict something done on the server, we'll have to merge the repositories, and from what I've heard that's usually a pain
12:47 < sam_moore> We'll probably have to deal with it at some point.
12:48 < Callum__> how do you pull from github>
12:51 < sam_moore> Not sure how you do it in the gui, is there a "pull" or "fetch" button
12:52 < Callum__> not that i can see
12:52 < sam_moore> Hang on, I'll start windows and see if I can work out how to do it
12:53 < james__> are you logged in?
12:53 < sam_moore> Yes
12:53 < sam_moore> Cool, you can even edit the files entirely from github
12:54 < Callum__> you can?
12:54 < sam_moore> Well, I can
12:54 < sam_moore> I added Callum- as a collaborator; can you see the repository?
12:55 < Callum__> i could see it before
12:55 < Callum__> wait hang on
12:56 < james__> can you add me aswell?
12:56 < james__> username: firefields
12:57 < Callum__> i can edit it from the browser
12:57 < sam_moore> Done
12:57 < sam_moore> Excellent, that's a start
12:59 < james__> I can comment
13:00 < sam_moore> The browser editor actually looks pretty good
13:01 < sam_moore> Hmm
13:01 < sam_moore> We need to be able to pull from github to our own machines though
13:01 < sam_moore> So we can actually run code
13:02 < sam_moore> I can do it myself using the command line
13:02 < sam_moore> I'll see how to do it using the GUI
13:03 < james__> I am having a look through the documentation now trying to find it
13:07 < sam_moore> I wonder what happens when two people edit a file at the same time
13:07 < james__> Lets edit the readme?
13:08 < sam_moore> Alright.
13:08 < james__> I am currently editing
13:08 < james__> Can you get in?
13:09 < sam_moore> Yes, and it looks the same
13:09 < sam_moore> Make some changes and commit it, then I'll go and we'll see what happens
13:09 < james__> Done
13:09 < sam_moore> It says that you have committed since I started editing
13:10 < sam_moore> Whoops, but I could still overwrite it
13:11 < sam_moore> Ok, at least it gives us a warning, that's nice
13:11 < sam_moore> I think the key to this will be: 1) Try and work on different source files 2) Send lots of spam to IRC when you do stuff
13:11 < james__> Also
13:11 < james__> if you look in history my changes are still there
13:11 < sam_moore> Yeah, that's nice
13:12 < sam_moore> And I think we can go back to them
13:12 < james__> I am reading about this fork and pull method as well.  Might work well
13:13 < james__> Essentially you fork the repo. Make changes then request for it to be pulled back into the master repo 
13:13 < sam_moore> Yes, that will likely be the best way to go about it.
13:13 < james__> That way all changes can be viewed and then confirmed before going into the master copy
13:15 < james__> https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo
13:15 < james__> and this https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests
13:17 < sam_moore> I think in the long run it will be easier to use the command line when you work on your local machine
13:17 < Callum__> might just end up learning how to do it all from command line anyway
13:17 < sam_moore> All the tutorials seem to give the command line stuff
13:17 < Callum__> yea
13:17 < Callum__> suppose you could use the gui just to look at whats there
13:17 < sam_moore> `git add remote github git@github.com:matchesucc/MCTX3420.git`
13:17 < sam_moore> `git pull github master`
13:17 < sam_moore> Make changes
13:17 < sam_moore> `git add .`
13:18 < sam_moore> `git commit`
13:18 < sam_moore> `git push github master`
13:18 < sam_moore> Well, that's just directly going to the repository without forking it
13:19 < Callum__> is the add thing for staging?
13:19 < sam_moore> Yeah; you have to tell it what changes to stage to the commit
13:19 < Callum__> yea
13:19 < sam_moore> I think there is an option to automatically add all changed files
13:20 < sam_moore> I've always just manually done them, makes it easier to work out what I actually did before writing the commit message
13:20 < james__> Do we want to fork first
13:20 < sam_moore> Probably
13:20 < james__> That way someone can't make a change that is incorrect into the master
13:21 < sam_moore> Yes, this sounds good
13:22 < sam_moore> It won't let me fork it (probably because I'm the "owner")
13:24 < james__> I have forked succesfully
13:25 < james__> maybe branch?
13:25 < sam_moore> No, branches are different
13:25 < james__> Right...
13:25 < james__> well i made a branch for you? :P
13:26 < sam_moore> It doesn't matter if I directly edit the master repository anyway; I'll have to deal with all the pull requests before I do anything mysekf
13:27 < sam_moore> Yeah, we don't want to use branches just yet
13:28 < sam_moore> A fork is for each person working on the code; a branch is for when you want to make changes to something that might break parts of the code that already work
13:28 < sam_moore> For example: You have some really badly written code, but it does what it's meant to do
13:28 < sam_moore> So you make a branch "Improve networking code" or something like that
13:29 < sam_moore> Then you redo it, and only when you're done you merge your branch back into the master, getting rid of all the old code
13:30 < james__> Fair enough. I think i have made a pull request...
13:30 < sam_moore> Cool
13:31 < sam_moore> Now it should be in the main repository
13:32 < james__> yeah. worked
13:32 < sam_moore> I show up as the author of your changes, which is a bit silly
13:33 < Callum__> firefields opened this pull request 15 hours ago
13:33 < Callum__> what
13:34 < sam_moore> Is the clock on your local machine correct?
13:34 < Callum__> yea
13:34 < Callum__> matchesucc merged 1 commit into matchesucc:master  from firefields:master  2 minutes ago
13:34 < Callum__> it also says that
13:34 < james__> Right.... Thats weird
13:35 < sam_moore> You guys should also be able to merge the pull requests, since you're collaborators
13:36 < Callum__> alright
13:36 < james__> Yeah. Should be able to
13:36 < sam_moore> So in summary: Fork the repository, make a pull request, go and check that nothing will break horribly, and then you can merge it
13:36 < james__> pretty much
13:36 < sam_moore> Cool
13:36 < sam_moore> We should put this in the progress report
13:37 < Callum__> Yea, detailing how we plan to collaborate the code
13:38 < sam_moore> So, should I put our IRC channel log into git?
13:39 < Callum__> probably a good idea
13:39 < sam_moore> That way people who weren't in the channel can read conversations they missed 
13:39 < Callum__> unlikely be that useful but it would be good to have everything archived
13:42 < james__> Its always good to have everything archived
13:47 < Callum__> so noone else getting weird timestamps on github
13:47 < james__> not that i can see
13:48 < sam_moore> No, they all make sense to me
13:48 < Callum__> also my forked repo doesnt have the updated readme
13:48 < Callum__> iv added the upstream and tried fetch upstream and doesnt seem to do anything
13:48 < sam_moore> Try merging after the fetch
13:48 < sam_moore> fetch + merge = pull
13:49 < sam_moore> "Pull request" is a bit confusing, because you're not asking to pull from my repository; you're requesting that I pull from yours
13:49 < Callum__> yea, i got that. how do i do the merge?
13:50 < sam_moore> git merge upstream/master
13:51 < Callum__> yup that worked
13:51 < sam_moore> The GUI seems really terrible, I have no idea how to do this stuff with it
13:52 < sam_moore> I thought it might be easier if people weren't used to the command line, but there aren't that many commands
13:52 < Callum__> yea
13:52 < james__> Its easier to comment etc
13:53 < james__> But some of the functionality is horribly buried
13:53 < sam_moore> Do you get a text editor in the terminal when you want to commit?
13:54 < sam_moore> Oh well, whatever people find easiest
14:09 < Callum__> alright well i just submitted a pull request and accepted it
14:10 < sam_moore> Yep
14:10 < sam_moore> Callum- authored in 15 hours
14:11 < sam_moore> ?
14:11 < Callum__> ahahahahahaah
14:11 < sam_moore> Are you from the future?
14:11 < sam_moore> Does IRC mess with the space time continuum
14:11 < Callum__> it says 15 minutes ago for me, but the rest are 17 hjours ago
14:11 < Callum__> i must be from the future :o
14:12 < sam_moore> Someone's clock is out of skew
14:13 < sam_moore> That is really wierd
14:13 < sam_moore> You merged the pull request... before the file was changed... according to this history
14:14 < sam_moore> Oh!
14:14 < sam_moore> Is it because github is based in the US
14:14 < Callum__> but for you all the times are right apart from mine?
14:14 < Callum__> and for me all the times are wrong but mine
14:15 < sam_moore> Well it's only showing relative times
14:15 < Callum__> or do you get weird results from james as well?
14:15 < sam_moore> James times look reasonable
14:15 < Callum__> hmm. weird
14:15 < sam_moore> But notice how a lot of our stuff is on 3rd August, it's actually the 4th today
14:16 < Callum__> hmm yea
14:17 < sam_moore> I kind of think we should fix this, it's not a major issue but it will certainly be confusing
14:18 < sam_moore> Hey, wierd, the times look sensible in git.ucc
14:18 < sam_moore> http://git.ucc.asn.au/?p=matches/MCTX3420.git;a=summary
14:19 < Callum__> yea agreed 
14:19 < Callum__> and that is kinda weird
